---
layout: archive
title: "Research and Projects"
permalink: /research-projects/
author_profile: true
---

### Centrism and moderation in American politics

I'm currently investigating the meaning of centrism and moderation in contemporary American politics. (I find centrism, centrist, and moderation are very often used interchangeably and treat them as such.) 

Other scholars have studied centrism in the context of electoral outcomes, political polarization, the campaign process, or focused on the rhetoric of politicians labeled "cenrist." My research demonstrates the absence of an agreed-upon definition of centrism, an observation I find true among journalists, politicians, and social scientists. The lack of a shared definition largely goes unnoticed, or at least unmentioned.

Centrism holds a variety of meanings. It can refer to a median voter (or citizen preference) center, a middle-ground ideological position (or set of positions), or the space in the middle of political actor preferences/behavior (primarily between two parties). It can be determined through the aggregation of preferences (where diversity represents centrism), it can refer to a statistic in a distribution (median or mean), or simply a midpoint in an abstract space (like ideology). In other cases, centrism is an ambiguous call to transcend political divisions, a call for "smart" or common sense policies, or a form of expert-led technocratic decision making. While centrism can mean so many different things, it certainly cannot be assumed to mean all of these at the same time, and this is one of the issues I focus on.  

Journalists, social scientists, public intellectuals, think tanks, and politicians seem to employ centrism in a way that, the supply of centrism (politicians, policies, or positions identified as centrist) does not match the demand (the "centrist" public opinion, or median preference). In fact, my analysis of newspaper articles shows the policies most often identified with centrism represent a set of policies preferred by economic elites – lower taxes, lower spending, privatizing entitlements, reducing the debt, and general support for free markets. The policies most often identified as not centrist tend to be policies supported by majorities, often durable majorities, of American citizens – like a higher minimum wage, government-run health care, strengthening Social Security, and higher taxes on corporations and high incomes. I find this represents efforts to define the contested space of the political center.

My future work will further explore these ideas. In particular, the empirical use of centrism in American political discourse is ripe for the application of content analysis and natural language processing. Further, there is a need to (1) highlight what I believe are serious flaws in the ways centrism is operationalized and measured in political science, (2) explore the historical origins of the contemporary brand of centrism in the United States, and (3) consider how the case of centrism compares to historical examples of ideological hegemony, the abuse of knowledge-based authority, and elite influence over political discourse.

### Fiscal sociology

Early on in graduate school I began working with my advisor Dr, Edgar Kiser on a number of tax-related projects. I fell in love with political economy and interdisciplinary social science while preparing our first paper review, "The Political Economy of Taxation" (in the *Annual Review of Political Science*). We summarize research on the pre-modern and contemporary determinants of total tax revenue, tax structure, and tax administration. This article was followed up by another review on the same topic, this time focusing on new and promising areas of scholarship ("Emerging Trends in the Political Economy of Taxation," in the *Emerging Trends in the Social and Behavioral Sciences*). Most recently, we wrote about taxation in the context of different perspectives of good or "quality" governance. We suggest different perspectives lead to different policy prescriptions for tax revenue, tax structure, and tax administration, and discuss the best examples for each in different periods of history, concluding with prospects for the development and maintenance of good governance with respect to taxation in the future ("Taxation and the Quality of Government," in *Oxford Handbook of the Quality of Government*).

My other work with Dr. Edgar Kiser includes on a number of empirical projects related to taxation and spending. One is a revisitation of Adolph Wagner's "Law of Increasing State Activity," the proposition that the size of the state (as a share of GDP) will increase along with economic growth. With descriptive and inferential statistics we demonstrate this "law" decidedly no longer holds, and we discuss whether this is due to a threshold effect (an maximal limit), a temporal effect (whether the neolbieral era changed the relationship), and how taxation is an essential, and sometimes neglected, consideration in the relationship ("Is there a limit to the size of the state?" in the *Journal of Institutional Economics*). We also have ongoing projects studying taxation, corruption, and state legitimacy in Southern Europe, Sub-Saharan Africa, and Japan.

### Fiscal and Environmental Politics

I built on my fiscal sociology experience and took it in a new direction to focus on carbon taxation. I studied carbon taxation in the context of two Washington state ballot initiatives, producing two publications, one on the institutional, partisan, and interest group factors in Washington state (*under review*), and the other with collaborators at the University of Washington and Washington State University on the impact of television ads on the 2018 ballot initiative. In the second study, I used precinct-level election results, used areal-weighted interpolation to aggregate to the Census tract level, and fit multilevel models to determine the effect of television ads at the media market level (we did not find evidence of an impact from ads; "Did TV ads funded by fossil fuel industry defeat the Washington carbon tax?", in *Climatic Change*).

I have also conducted a comparative study of carbon tax adoptions in the OECD. Using event history analysis I find evidence for a historical institutionalist explanation of carbon tax adoptions, where administrative capacity for and institutionalization of indirect taxes (sales taxes, value-added taxes, excise taxes, sin taxes), along with the presence of neocorporatism and the absence of federalism (or "weak" federalism) , explains the early adoptions of national-level carbon taxation and the relatively high priced carbon taxes (in both cases, primarily found in Northern Europe) (*under review*).

A final strand of this research focuses on the mental health consequences of environmental pollution. Along with a group of sociologists and public health scholars at the University of Washington, we used longitudinal panel data to local measures of air pollution and found that greater exposure to pollution (PM 2.5) was associated with psychological distress. This demonstrates the importance of environmental as well as individual level considerations for psychological well being ("The effects of air pollution on individual psychological distress," in *Health & Place*).
