---
layout: archive
title: "Teaching Experience"
permalink: /teaching-experience/
author_profile: true
---

As a teacher I am driven to help students learn how to think critically and sociologically about the world around them, to engage in debate with others, and to communicate their ideas through writing and speaking. During graduate school I have been privileged to teach a large range of courses: substantive area courses (like political sociology), sociological theory, a civic engagement practicum, an undergraduate research practicum, and the undergraduate honors course. Each has required me to develop different teaching skills and prepared me to teach students not only how to understand research and social theory, but also to conduct their own research and effectively communicate the importance of their work.   

### What I can teach

I've taught courses in political sociology, sociological theory, undergraduate honors sociology, sociology of work and occupations, undergraduate, law and society, and the introductory survey into sociology. I've been a TA for social statistics, sociological theory, data and society, and intro to sociology. I have also supervised a number of independent studies, an interdisciplinary honors thesis, and a sociology undergraduate honors thesis (separate from serving as the instructor).  Most of my courses (and all independent studies and honors theses) have included a significant amount of writing feedback and instruction. Further, given my research experience, I am confident I can teach courses in environmental sociology/politics, comparative politics, fiscal sociology, and economic sociology. 

I can also teach courses in statistical programming. In the research practicum and honors courses, I taught undergraduate students the R statistical programming language, with a focus on data manipulation/cleaning, data visualization, and model fitting (primarily linear and logistic models, but in a few cases multilevel models and panel models). I have experience with various R packages used for data manipulation, visualization, counterfactual estimations, table creation (including model output), spatial data (dealing with maps, shapefiles, and areal weighted interpolation), statistical modelling (OLS, GLM, multilevel, Bayesian), using survey data, text analysis (and regular expressions), and packages for accessing data sets like the General Social Survey, American National Election Study, and the US Census. With my experience I am well equipped to teach workshops and courses in introductory R, data visualization, and statistical implementation. While most of my experience is in R, I also have experience with teaching undergraduate students SPSS, Stata, and SQL. 

### How I teach 

When I teach substantive courses – like political sociology and sociological theory – I generally split class time between lecture and discussion or small group activities. Lectures cover the assigned readings and additional material expanding the scope of the lecture to include differing perspectives, recent data, and other applications of theories to historical and current events. Students submit short comments or questions prior to each meeting on the assigned reading, and I use these to guide group discussion. 

Since most of my experience is with relatively small classes (fewer than 30 students), my goal is to cultivate a collegial, friendly space for students to feel comfortable talking about course material by engaging in discussion with me and the other students. I emphasize respectful disagreement, relating theory/readings to current events or personal experiences, and welcome constructive criticisms of readings and content from the lectures. 

In the research practicum I play a bit of a different role. In the early part of the quarter, I work with the students to create a testable research question and to identify a set of methods appropriate for gathering data. The instructor role shifts over the quarter to adapt to student needs at any given time. Depending on the project, this includes survey design, ethnographic methods, qualitative and quantitative data analysis, data visualization, and inferential and descriptive statistics. As they progress, I constantly provide feedback on analyses, the written report, and the end-of-quarter presentation, and meet with students if they need help on a specific task. Teaching the research practicum was always the most demanding but also most rewarding teaching experience. 

The honors course was similar, but instead of one group project each student had their own. The course was oriented around getting students to clarify their research questions, determine the most appropriate (and feasible) methods, begin data collection, and write clearly about their project (including literature reviews, theory, results, and general writing tips to get them writing clearly). I shared my experiences, difficulties, and insecurities in research and writing. 

In all courses I maintain an open policy of communication with students. Even prior to the pandemic, I encourage students to be transparent with me about any difficulties they are having with course content, attendance, or life events disrupting their education experience (without asking for details, of course). I believe this teaches students an important lesson, that when you are struggling or need help, don't be afraid to ask for it. Since the start of the pandemic, I emphasize this even more, making accommodations for students to submit work on alternative timelines, meet individually to supplement discussion, and to give assistance on presentations, papers, or research. 
